projects/project-3.md, before:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/MayDay.jpg
title: MayDay Button
permalink: projects/cotton
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2014-04-12
labels:
  - C#
  - IT Resources
  - Printers Suck
summary: A toolkit for end users to fix their mistakes
---

Tired of constantly being interrupted by coworkers asking you to troubleshoot their printers every five minutes? I certainly was. That's why I developed a simple solution: the MayDay Button.

If you're like me and find it frustrating to be pulled away from your tasks by repetitive and menial requests, the MayDay Button is your saving grace. Designed to empower end users to resolve common IT issues themselves, this intuitive button executes essential troubleshooting commands with just a single click.

Imagine dealing with a stubborn receipt printer that refuses to cooperate. With the MayDay Button, users can reset printer tasks, clear spools, and even receive helpful notifications to address common issues, such as low paper levels. It's about teaching self-reliance and freeing up your time to enjoy the moments that matter.

Featuring a user-friendly interface with an unmistakable "MAYDAY!" button, even the least tech-savvy individuals can navigate its functionality effortlessly. Plus, with three customizable buttons, adapting to different software environments is a breeze.

But the MayDay Button doesn't stop there. As an IT professional, you'll appreciate its advanced features, including remote command execution via local TCP connection, instant notifications for critical events, and seamless communication through private Slack chats – all accessible directly from the workstation.

Say goodbye to constant interruptions and reclaim your time with the MayDay Button – your ultimate tool for streamlining IT support and empowering end users to troubleshoot with confidence (and safety).

<hr>

Source: <a href="https://github.com/Joexv/MayDay-Button"><i class="large github icon "></i>Github</a>

Commit message:

Removed old files, updated resume and projects to be a bit more professional

projects/project-3.md, after:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/MayDay.jpg
title: MayDay Button
permalink: projects/cotton
date: 2014-04-12
labels:
  - C#
  - IT Resources
  - Printers Suck
summary: A toolkit for end users to fix their mistakes
---

Ever feel like you’re a magnet for every printer and tech issue in the office? I did, which led me to develop the **MayDay Button**: a toolkit that gives end users the power to troubleshoot common IT issues on their own and lets IT staff focus on more pressing problems.

MayDay Button is designed to address the types of interruptions IT professionals face daily, empowering users to solve their own problems with just a single click.

### Core Functionality
- **One-Click Fixes**: With a large, unmistakable "MAYDAY!" button, users can reset devices, clear printer spools, and get back to work without needing assistance. This instantly solves common issues like frozen printers or unresponsive software, saving time for everyone.
- **Self-Reliance through Simplicity**: The interface is straightforward, allowing even those with minimal tech experience to troubleshoot confidently. Alongside the main button, there are three customizable buttons for adapting to specific software environments, making MayDay Button as versatile as it is easy to use.
  
### Advanced Features for IT Professionals
For IT teams, MayDay Button isn’t just about reducing interruptions—it’s a tool that streamlines support:
- **Remote Command Execution**: IT can send commands directly to workstations over a secure TCP connection, offering quick fixes without leaving their desks.
- **Real-Time Alerts**: Receive instant notifications for critical events, enabling proactive response to potential issues before they escalate.
- **Slack Integration**: Built-in communication tools let IT chat privately with users directly from their workstations, making problem-solving even faster.

### Why It’s Effective
MayDay Button encourages a culture of self-sufficiency in the workplace, helping users address minor problems themselves while allowing IT to concentrate on complex tasks. This tool cuts down on repetitive tasks and frees up time for meaningful work. 

Developing the MayDay Button taught me the value of intuitive design paired with powerful functionality. It’s a solution that not only addresses immediate issues but also reduces the need for constant IT support, creating a smoother, more efficient workplace.
<hr>

Source: <a href="https://github.com/Joexv/MayDay-Button"><i class="large github icon "></i>Github</a>
