projects/project-11.md, before:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/FSU.png
title: School Project - Project and Portfolio II Game Design - Online
permalink: projects/School_PP2
date: 2024-03-01
labels:
  - Unreal Engine 5.3
  - School
  - Level Design
summary: Level design project focusing on atmospheric exploration and cultural motifs
---

In this level design project, developed as part of my Project and Portfolio II Game Design course, players are invited to explore the eerie beauty of an abandoned Japanese forest, drawing inspiration from the legendary temples of Nara. Crafted in Unreal Engine 5.3, this mini-game level combines atmospheric visuals with exploration-driven gameplay to create an immersive experience that brings the mystical elements of Japanese culture to life.

### Level Concept and Gameplay
The level’s core design focuses on guiding players through dense foliage and ancient ruins, where light serves as a guiding element, leading them deeper into the mysterious landscape. Players can discover collectible Lucky Cats scattered across the environment, encouraging exploration and rewarding curiosity with hidden secrets. This fusion of cultural motifs and gameplay not only enhances the level’s aesthetic appeal but also creates a sense of discovery as players uncover the mysteries of these forgotten forests.

### Design and Technical Elements
- **Inspired by Japanese Heritage**: The level architecture and environmental details draw from the seven great temples of Nara, blending historical and spiritual elements to evoke a sense of reverence and mystery.
- **Atmospheric Lighting and Visuals**: Using Unreal Engine 5.3’s advanced lighting and rendering capabilities, the level leverages fog, ambient sounds, and directional light to guide players and enhance immersion.
- **Exploration-Driven Gameplay**: By integrating collectibles and subtle visual cues, players are encouraged to navigate the terrain at their own pace, creating a rewarding experience for those who seek out every hidden corner.

### Watch and Play
- **Video Summary and Playthrough**: [Watch the level summary and gameplay here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jSAg2hTccYhAPOa3s27jaFoEPj-DW3td/view?usp=sharing&t=424)
- **Game Download**: [Download the level to play](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jEb6BOZV6ityzsMAwxycR9oHMOaLup7k/view?usp=drive_link)  
Once loaded, press **P** or **ESC**, then navigate to “My Levels” to select “JDOliveira - Start,” “Middle,” or “End” to experience different sections of the level.

### Reflection
This project demonstrates my ability to blend cultural storytelling with engaging gameplay mechanics, using Unreal Engine 5.3’s tools to create an immersive and visually captivating level. The experience highlights my strengths in atmospheric design and player guidance, showing how thoughtful level design can evoke curiosity and a sense of adventure.

Commit message:

Updated project 11
Adjusted project 11 a bit
Added screenshots
Removed teammates from my build to slim it down

projects/project-11.md, after:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/FSU.png
title: Japanese Garden Level - School Assignment
permalink: projects/School_PP2
date: 2024-03-01
labels:
  - Unreal Engine 5.3
  - School
  - Level Design
summary: A moody exploration experience rooted in Japanese cultural motifs and atmospheric design.
screenshots:
  - Screenshots/JapaneseGarden (1).png
  - Screenshots/JapaneseGarden (2).png
  - Screenshots/JapaneseGarden (3).png
  - Screenshots/JapaneseGarden (4).png
  - Screenshots/JapaneseGarden (5).png
---

In this level design project, created for my Game Design course, players explore the eerie beauty of an abandoned Japanese forest inspired by the legendary temples of Nara. Built in Unreal Engine 5.3, the level blends atmospheric visuals and exploration-focused gameplay to immerse players in a world shaped by cultural reverence and mystery.

### Level Concept and Gameplay
The level guides players through overgrown paths and ancient ruins, using light as a natural wayfinding tool. Collectible Lucky Cats are hidden throughout the environment, rewarding curiosity and exploration with subtle secrets and worldbuilding. The result is a calm, reflective experience that encourages players to slow down and take in the surroundings.

### Design and Technical Elements
**Cultural Inspiration**
Architecture and landscape design draw from Nara’s seven great temples, blending spiritual and historical elements to build a setting with weight and purpose.

**Atmospheric Visuals**
Leveraging UE5.3’s lighting features, the level uses fog, ambient audio, and natural light direction to create immersion and guide exploration organically.

**Player-Led Discovery**
No combat or time limits—just player curiosity. Subtle visual cues and collectibles reward thorough exploration and attention to detail.

### Watch and Play
- **Video Summary and Playthrough**: [Watch the level summary and gameplay here](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1jSAg2hTccYhAPOa3s27jaFoEPj-DW3td/view?usp=sharing&t=424)
- **Game Download**: [Download the level to play](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1wSKr67wOGNoLP1vWKT-aD0n9Jmi-VvC-/view?usp=sharing)
