projects/project-6.md, before:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/inventory.png
title: Inventory Manager
permalink: projects/IM
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2017-01-01
labels:
  - C#
  - Excel
summary: A basic inventory/customer management tool
---

I used to work for a computer repair company and, at the time when I was first hired on, they used excel files to "keep track" of customers that have come into the store and what kind of work was done to their devices.
I say "Keep track of customer files" loosely because these excel files were never updated past the customers name and phone number. And sometimes not even that much.
I wanted to come up with a way to make sure that everyone kept things nice and organized. Thus my inventory management program was born. While we never ended up using it for inventory or order tracking, we did use it religously for our customers. This not only helped us out by being able to keep track of what work we had done, but it made the customers happy seeing more information on their printed invoices at the end of thier transactions.

We also ended up introducing an insurance program for our customers and thus I added in a tracking system, to make sure we know whos payed, if/when someone makes a claim, and if we are even making a profit based on the amounts claimed and what people were paying.

Now, when I left the company, I was still on very good terms with the Owner. And he continued to use the program. But I forgot to backup my latest source to anywhere besides their computers, and since then he has since deleted the source. Everything on Github was what little backups I had personally, plus a rewrite of most of the customer handling that I ended up doing later on to fix some bugs that were present in the version the Owner still had. I am not actively maintaining this as it was scrapped together kinda quickly to make sure we had something to work with. Additionally, the customers are stored in ini files as, at the time, I couldn't for the life of me figure out how to setup a proper Database, and by the time I had figured out how, there were too many customer files to seemlessly import from the ini files.
Maybe one day I will recreate this with a proper database and documentation. But for now, it will stay as it is.

Note: this was rewritten with a proper local DB. ignore everything that this man has said. signed this man.

Source: [Inventory Manager](https://github.com/Joexv/InventoryManager)

Commit message:

Removed old files, updated resume and projects to be a bit more professional

projects/project-6.md, after:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/inventory.png
title: Inventory Manager
permalink: projects/IM
date: 2017-01-01
labels:
  - C#
  - Excel
summary: A basic inventory/customer management tool
---

The **Inventory Manager** was born out of necessity when I worked for a computer repair company. At that time, customer records were tracked through Excel files, but the system was inefficient and rarely updated beyond basic information like names and phone numbers. Wanting to improve the organization and accuracy of our customer data, I developed the Inventory Manager to create a more reliable, structured system for customer and order tracking.

### Project Background and Initial Challenges
Initially, customer information was often incomplete or inaccurate, leading to frustration among both employees and customers. My goal was to implement a tool that would:
- **Organize Customer Data**: Provide a single, accessible place to record detailed information about each customer’s repair history, contact details, and transactions.
- **Improve Customer Satisfaction**: By adding more detail to printed invoices, customers had greater transparency and confidence in the services provided.

### Core Features and Functionality
Inventory Manager became an essential tool for the business, and while we didn’t end up using it for inventory tracking, it transformed how customer information was managed:
- **Enhanced Record-Keeping**: Allowed staff to easily record and retrieve detailed customer data, making follow-up and service history tracking much smoother.
- **Insurance Tracking**: When the company introduced an insurance program, I added a system to track customer payments, claims, and profitability, ensuring better financial oversight.

### Development Journey and Lessons Learned
The initial file-based storage system became cluttered quickly, which pushed me to learn how to implement a database for better organization and scalability. This transition not only improved the tool’s performance but also gave me hands-on experience in database management—skills that have been valuable in my later roles.

Even after leaving the company (and then later becoming its owner and operator), I maintained a good relationship with the owner, who continued using the program. Although some of the latest source code was lost, I have preserved partial versions on GitHub, along with a rewritten customer handling system to address bugs in the original.

Developing Inventory Manager taught me the importance of scalable, organized data storage and instilled practical skills that I’ve applied in subsequent projects and positions.

Source: [Inventory Manager](https://github.com/Joexv/InventoryManager)
