projects/project-7.md, before:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/headripper.gif
title: Headripper
permalink: projects/Headripper
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-01-01
labels:
  - C#
  - REST
  - API
  - MP3
  - Meditation
summary: A tool to download and listen to Headspace Sounds
---

I'm not an a Headspace user, but I was dissapointed that you could not use a PC or even a web browser to listen to a majority of their library. This program will allow me to bring access to those who want to try Headspace but either don't have a mobile device or don't have access to their device during the night.
Features

Currently supports all 'Night' audio. Regular meditation and relaxation audios to be supported in the future. Sleepcasts, voice and background are mixed using FFMPEG into a single MP3. All other media is downloaded as AAC files. Audio is pulled using Headspace official servers using an official Headspace paid account. You CANNOT use this program for piracy as it requires a working current Bearer ID to authenticate with the server. This Bearer ID is unique to each account, and can easily be pulled by signing into Headspace on your web browser and using web dev tools to view any JSON request sent to the server. Without this authentication you cannot use the program period. It just won't work.

Currently, the program is contained in a single form, with a very basic audio player built in for ease of testing and checking media you download.

Headspace appears to change what voice/audio file Sleepcasts use on a daily basis. You can identify which audio you will get based on the Session ID. Some Wind Downs have multiple variations to their audio based on length of time, and narrator. These can be selected via a drop down box. Currently they are labeled as just a numerical ID, in the future these will idealy be labeled properly with narrator information and length of the audio.
Disclaimer

By making this program I am not promoting piracy or stealing of content from Headspace. They truely believe in what they create and that should be supported for making a service that helps many many people every day.

Source: [HeadRipper](https://github.com/Joexv/HeadRipper)

Commit message:

Removed old files, updated resume and projects to be a bit more professional

projects/project-7.md, after:

---
layout: project
type: project
image: images/headripper.gif
title: Headripper
permalink: projects/Headripper
date: 2020-01-01
labels:
  - C#
  - REST
  - API
  - MP3
  - Meditation
summary: A tool to download and listen to Headspace sounds
---

**Headripper** is a custom-built utility developed to provide desktop access to Headspace’s “Night” audio library for users who may lack access to mobile devices or prefer listening through their PC. This project originated from my own observations of how difficult it can be for users to access Headspace’s vast audio library on non-mobile platforms, especially during nighttime or work hours when a mobile device might not be available. Headripper is designed to bridge that gap, responsibly enabling Headspace subscribers to enjoy their favorite sleepcasts, meditation tracks, and ambient sounds on a desktop.

### Purpose and Motivation
While I am not a regular Headspace user myself, I recognized that many individuals could benefit from being able to access Headspace’s relaxing audio on their desktop—whether it’s for those who work night shifts, prefer a PC environment, or simply want more flexible access to Headspace’s content. This project was developed with the goal of respecting the service’s integrity while enhancing its accessibility for verified subscribers.

### Key Features
- **Comprehensive “Night” Audio Support**: Headripper is specifically designed to support Headspace’s “Night” audio content, providing users with access to the entire library of sleepcasts, nighttime sounds, and wind-down audio sessions. This tool allows for a streamlined download process, ensuring that users have their favorite audio tracks ready to play offline.
  
- **Seamless Audio Merging with FFMPEG**: Recognizing the immersive quality of Headspace’s sleepcasts, Headripper integrates FFMPEG to combine multiple audio layers—such as narration and background sounds—into a single MP3 file. This feature preserves the original audio experience that Headspace intended, ensuring listeners can fully engage with the content as it was designed.

- **Account-Based Authentication for Security**: Headripper is structured to prevent misuse and unauthorized access. To download audio, users must enter a valid bearer token, obtainable only through an active, paid Headspace subscription. This token-based authentication system ensures that only genuine Headspace subscribers can use Headripper, aligning with Headspace’s terms and protecting their content from piracy.

- **Built-In Preview Player**: To make the experience smoother, Headripper includes a simple audio player for users to preview downloaded content directly within the app. This feature is especially useful for users who want to quickly verify their downloads without switching between applications.

### Technical Details
- **Developed in C# with REST API Integration**: Headripper leverages REST API calls to interact with Headspace’s servers, providing efficient data retrieval and ensuring a stable connection for authenticated users.
- **Versatile Audio Formats**: While sleepcasts are combined into MP3 files for a cohesive listening experience, other content is downloaded as AAC files, preserving Headspace’s audio quality and maintaining compatibility with various media players.

### Future Development and Enhancements
Headripper is an evolving project, with future updates focused on enhancing usability and expanding access to additional Headspace content:
- **Extended Library Access**: Currently limited to “Night” audio, future updates will support a broader range of meditation and relaxation content, providing subscribers with access to an even greater variety of audio resources on their desktop.
- **Improved Audio Labeling**: At present, sleepcast variations are labeled by Session ID. Planned improvements include detailed labeling that will allow users to filter by narrator and duration, creating a more intuitive browsing experience and helping users find the exact audio session they want.

### Responsible Use and Disclaimer
Headripper was developed with the utmost respect for Headspace’s work and mission. This program is not intended to promote piracy or unauthorized distribution. By requiring a unique bearer token tied to each user’s account, Headripper ensures that only verified, paying subscribers can access the service. Headspace’s dedication to mental wellness is invaluable, and this tool aims to enhance their service’s accessibility rather than disrupt its intended use.

### Final Thoughts
Developing Headripper has been a rewarding technical challenge, blending REST API work with audio handling and user-centered design. This project highlights my focus on practical problem-solving and commitment to creating tools that expand accessibility responsibly. It’s a testament to the power of simple, effective software to enhance user experience without compromising content integrity.

Source: [HeadRipper](https://github.com/Joexv/HeadRipper)
